# General coding style guide

Language overarching style-guide

## Abstract rules

> Some rules apply to all languages, although more strictly to some.

> This rules should be applied as far as possible always searching for an improvement of the readability. If any of this rules is an impediment in that sense, shouldn't be applied.

### C42 rules! ###

0. Non business related code: The code shouldn't contain any customer name, entity or label that is related with the customer or the business case that is being build. So var names like: expertName, isExpertUser are wrong.
0. Tool related code: The words used to name the different vars/methods/objects/files should be related to the tool we are creating. So names like: userName, isUserType are correct.
0. To allow to create an autogenerated documentation, comments should be written following some of our auto-generate documentation tools. For front end applications we use [yuiDocs](http://yui.github.io/yuidoc/ "yuiDocs	").
0. Translations should be dynamic. We have multiple ways to provide of multilingual labels, texts, etc. Mainly using our rest API where we can set an object containg all texts related to an app. For that reason, the way as that texts are being rendered in the templates should be totally dinamic.
0. All libraries and plugins used in the app should be in the last version.

### Code Syntax and naming ###

1. Variable names should be clear and preferably short; if names need to be long to be clear, most likely the code should be moved to a more logical place.
1. Functions should be short and have a clear single purpose; this improves readability, reusability and reduces the need for extensive commentary.
1. Variables, constants, attributes and the like should not be reused unless they have the same exact logical meaning, otherwise, refactoring (when the differences become apparent) will be complicated and error prone.
1. Comments should explain the why of the code, not the what; the code itself is the what of the code.
1. All code, comments and documentation should be totally in English.

### Code Structure ###

2. Information should be stored in one and only one place (except for very specific purposes like caching), otherwise the information has to be kept in sync continuously to prevent invalid program states.
2. Code should be modular and decoupled; different aspects of coding (business logic, logging, error handling, inter process communication, etc) should be separated as much as possible.
2. All decoupled object shold have a explanatory comment summarizing what that file/class/object contains/does.